# stats_projects
Personal and school statistics projects from a few of my BYU statistics courses. 
Those courses include Stat 469 (analysis of correlated data), Stat 435 (nonparametric statistics), and Stat 330 (introduction to regression). I used R for all analyses included in this repository. 

**Note:** Projects from my first year of the BYU statistics MS program are also included in this repository. Explanations for each of these projects are not yet written, but the MS courses include Stat 535 (Theory of Linear Models), Stat 536 (Statistical Learning and Data Mining), Stat 537 (Mixed Models), and Stat 624 (Computational Statistics). Projects from Stat 651 (Bayesian Methods) and Stat 637 (Generalized Linear Models) will be uploaded by January 2021. 

**An explanation of some projects in this repository:**

*Projects from the Correlated Data Analysis course:*

1. Modeling home appraisals in Ames, IA, with a heteroskedastic spatial correlation model. A pdf and word document of the writeup are included, and the code for the project is included in a file called `Geospatial_Housing_Prices.R`. 

2. Modeling levels of particulate matter exposure in children using a longitudinal multiple linear regression model. A word document of the writeup is included and the code for the project is in the file `Pollution_Project2.R`.

*Projects from the Nonparametric Statistics Course:*

1. Analysis of difference between two teaching methods in their effectiveness. A two-sample t test and Mann-Whitney U test were conducted in this analysis, and the advantages of a nonparametric method over its parametric counterpart are discussed in the writeup. The code for this project is in an R Markdown file called `Teaching_Method_Analysis.Rmd`. The data for the project is included in the file `Teaching.csv`. It is worth mentioning that this data does not come from a real study, but was generated by the professor of the course for learning purposes. Latex formatting was used for the writeup. 

2. Analysis of differences between two tire brands on tire wear. Again, the data was fabricated by the professor of the course for learning purposes. A paired t-test and Wilcoxon test were conducted, and advantages/disadvantages of the nonparametric method is discussed in the writeup. The R Markdown file for this project is entitled `Tire_Wear_Analysis.Rmd` and the data is held in the file `Tires.csv`. Latex was used for the writeup. 

*Projects from the Introductory Regression Course:*

1. A logistic regression analysis of Mountain Pine Beetle damage in an area of a Colorado forest. The code is included in a file called `FINAL.R`. A word document of the writeup is also included. 

2. A multiple linear regression analysis of farm appraisals. The code is held in the file `midterm2farms.R`, and a word document of the writeup is also included. The writeup formats for both of these projects are fairly rudimentary, as these were the first "real" analyses I completed during my undergrad. 
